Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to get the page count
from the page itself as opposed to hard-coding it to 50.
So instead of 50, we want page.page_count, for example.
Now this is going to be a property of our AllBooksPage.
So let's go into there and add it in.
What we'll wanna do is, of course, have some property here
that says page_count and it'll return.
We're gonna start with 50, but of course,
it's going to return something coming from the page.
Let's go over to Chrome and find out what that might be.
Here we have now moved over to Chrome.
We've got the page, and we're
gonna right-click, and inspect.
This is gonna bring us over to the inspector,
and it's gonna highlight the thing we've inspected,
in this case it's an li, not too interesting.
If we go down to the very bottom
and we right-click and inspect the 50,
we will now get something a bit more interesting
which is this pager here.
And I'm just gonna expand this.
And notice how the website changes,
but the HTML is not gonna change, so this is fine.
Then we have a bunch of things in here.
We have a li which has a class of current
and that contains Page 1 of 50.
In there, we have a ul, which is a pager.
By the way, I know that I'm scrolled too high up there.
So this is a pager there,
that's inside a div which is inside another div,
which is inside the section.
So as you can see, fairly similar to where the different,
here, different books are,
we've got instead of inside that row class,
we've got a pager, and inside that pager class, that ul,
we have a list item which is the current class
that has the Page 1 of 50.
So what we're gonna do is extract this class here,
and what we're gonna do is go over to the top div,
page_inner, then we're gonna get the section,
then we're gonna get the pager and then we're gonna get
the li current.
And that's gonna give us the Page 1 of 50.
So, let's go over back to PyCharm and set this up.
Let's open the all_books_page locators.
And here we're going to add a new locator.
This locator is going to be the pager locator
and it's going to be div.page_inner, section ul.pager,
li.current.
And that's going to give us that element we just found
that contains Page 1 of 50.
Going back to the all_books_page, instead of returning 50
we are going to get the content from that tag.
So we're going to do content equals self.soup.find,
sorry, select_one(AllBooksPageLocators.PAGER)
.string and that's gonna give us Page 1 of 50
and then we're gonna use regular expressions to extract
the 50 and I think you can do that.
Looking at the currency we looked at earlier
in the book parser, you can do the same thing
for Page 1 of 50.
And what we're interested, in this case,
is the 50 that comes at the end.
So using the regular expression module
and the search function inside it
I think you can find this.
Give this a go and then come back to the video
and we will continue.
I hope you managed.
All that we have to do is, of course, first of all define
our pattern, which is going to be page, 0 to 9,
plus of and then inside brackets 0 to 9 plus,
because this gonna be page one or page 10 or 20,
or whatever, of 50, for example.
And inside the brackets, remember, we're going to get
our group when we do search.
So then we're gonna create our matcher,
which is gonna be re.search of pattern in content.
We have to import re and another tidbit
of Python convention: when you import a module,
I think I may have said this earlier, when you import
a module make sure that it's at the top.
Other module imports that you don't import
from your own code go underneath it and finally,
your own code imports go below that.
So this style of imports go at the very top.
And then we've got the number of pages with is an int
of matcher.group one.
Remember, matcher group zero is going to be the entire
Page 1 of 50, the first group, one, is going to be
whatever's inside the brackets.
And if you have multiple sets of brackets that will be then
group two and group three and so forth.
And that's it, we then return pages and that will give us
the number of pages in the whole site.
Let's go back to app and instead, now we can see
that this has not gone yellow anymore, which was an error
before, now it is page.page_count it seems valid.
We can run the menu again, let me close that,
and we shouldn't get any errors but it should take a while.
And there we have it, it seems to be loaded, we can get
the best books and we can see that they are there.
And so that's pretty awesome.
We now have successfully extracted some more information
from the page and as you can see there's really nothing
too magical going on here.
All that we're doing is selecting or finding
the locator that we want to use in your browser
and then just getting it or maybe doing
some regular expression to extract something from it.
Regular expressions, very powerful, can be a bit confusing,
so I'd recommend you study them in more depth
as you advance your knowledge of programming.
It can be really useful.
But that's it for this video.
I just wanted to show you another example of extracting
some data from the site and how straightforward it is.
All you're looking for are patterns.
So, with that said, I'll see you on the next video.